>> ThePrimeagen: We're going to kinda
do like a little quick little roundup
of a couple cool Unix tools that
you should just know about,
because knowing about Unix tools is very,
very, very fantastic and
will just save your life
a whole bunch of time.
Remember that same file that we had,
I'm gonna transform it so
that you can do this, foo foo,
bar bar, and still all be the same.
But we just wanna do a basic
transformation on top of it.
And so this is using something called Zed.
If you're not familiar with Zed,
you could always open up Vim and
effectively create the Mac, create
the regex in Vim, and then use it in Zed.
And the reason why is that if
you have your kind of Vim,
even basically configured,
you can have, you know.
You see how that thing is
highlighting as I'm doing the search?
It makes it a little bit easier when
you're trying to handcraft a bit
of a macro, or, I mean, a bit of a search
and replace, because it's not gonna be
nearly as confusing, because you're like,
this is where I messed up, right?
Because, once you start getting into the
slash d part, and then you're trying to
put in all these things, and I'm like,
is it like a slash plus, is it?
You start going into that, then all of
a sudden becomes really confusing, and
you start getting everything incorrect.
You don't wanna have that right,
because then it's just awful.
So what I can do right here
is I can do the following,
I'm gonna do a little find and replace.
And I wanna find foo effectively and
replace multiple times.
So I can do something like this.
I can go colon and
then I can do what I like to refer
to as a fighting one eyed Kirby.
And so a fighting one eyed
Kirby is you escape the opening
parenthesis dot star escape
the closing parenthesis.
So it kinda looks like a fighting
one eyed Kirby, right?
There's only one eye on this poor guy.
And so, that will create what
is known as a capture group.
These are very important in your regex for
ad hoc kind of regex stuff.
By the way, I highly recommend you
don't use regex in production software.
Highly recommend using them on
the command line and ad hoc query, foo,
it's always good to have it in your belt,
not good to have it in production, okay?
Unless if your belt is production,
then that's crazy.
You're Batman.
Okay, you're not Batman.
Not Batman.
All right, so now that I have that,
I can match that group and
I can repeat it with a slash one.
So notice that says foo,
whatever I captured, it repeated.
I can reference it and put it back in.
So this is just such a fun skill to have
because I can't tell you how many little
things that I found throughout
my life where it's just like,
I need to grab certain parts and
just move them.
And it's a hugely manual operation,
or it can become just fine and
replacing very, very great.
And so we theoretically could create
this exact same thing and go, slash one,
slash one, and then end it right there.
And so there we go.
We've now created kind of
that exact same thing.
So if I take this and
I'm gonna highlight this and
I'm gonna yoink this whole thing
that I've created right here, right?
And I go cat out, right?
Cat out.
You could go to sed, and I could
actually take this exact same thing, and
you'll notice it does the same thing.
So often whenever I'm working for
a really good sed query,
I'll use Vim to kind of
help myself through it.
But sed allows you to do this in line,
in a pipe throughout it.
Again, I know you can also just
pass in the file to sed itself.
You can replace in a file with sed.
I think at one point people used
to program using things as arcane,
as sed, and add, and grep,
and all these kind of things.
I never lived in that world.
That just sounds nuts,
though it does sound a little fun to spend
one week trying to become good at Ed?
Can you become good at the standard editor
and just like, that'd be just so much fun.
Maybe it wouldn't be fun at all.
But in my head,
romantically, it sounds fun.
So it's good to just have a little bit of
sed in you because you never know where
you're gonna need to replace one thing
with something else or you're gonna need
to do some sort of transformative
operation on a stream of input coming in.
It's just a really good thing
to have available to you.
So I just wanna make
sure you know about that.
We've used find a lot in this, but
I've never really talked much about it.
Find is really, really great.
And when you have to do
something over a lot of stuff,
it's really good to know about this exec.
It'll just save you seconds upon seconds
of execution when you have to do this
a bunch.
Instead of piping the results of find into
something else, you can use exec, and
it'll just save you a lot of time.
So it's very, very fantastic.
You don't even need to know how to use it.
You just need to know that it exists.
So at someday in the future when
you do this, just use that and
your life will be much, much better.
All right, fantastic.
Okay, xargs.
This is where things get really exciting,
okay?
Xargs, all right.
If you're not familiar with xargs,
what xargs allows you to do is,
say you have some input coming in, and you
want to do something with that input, but
you want to do something over and
over again.
Have you ever tried to
remove stuff you're finding?
You have a list of files you wanna remove.
Say you had a file that contained
10 files that you wanted to remove.
How would you do that?
Well, it'd be a little bit more
complicated if you didn't have xargs,
cuz xargs allows you to take something,
and then capture it, and
then do something with it.
So I could theoretically go curl.com.
So notice that I curled 123.com.
So it allows you to take input and
then pipe it into something else.
So if you wanted to remove those files,
you could actually have RM, capture it,
and it would actually remove those files.
So it's like one of those nice
things if you ever find yourself in.
Somehow I find myself needing to remove
a group of things regularly, say,
here's a good example.
Have you ever accidentally not have
your TS config correctly specified.
Somehow hit TSC, and
then now your project's filled with a
bunch of JavaScript and TypeScript files.
Well, you can literally find source and
then you could actually technically
do delete if you wanted to do it.
It actually worked that way, but I'm just
trying to give you an example here, okay?
We're not gonna do that.
You could technically find source,
list everything out that matches some sort
of pattern, and then you could xargs and
say, delete on those ones, right?
You could delete on top of everything that
you find that say is a JavaScript file.
So you can kinda do some things to
kinda compose yourself in this way.
Xargs is super, super useful.
But there's also one thing
that's kinda sucky about xargs.
Notice that, as I did that it just
executes it one at a time, bap, bap, bap,
bap, bap, right?
So if I add in 4 or new line 4,
new line 5, new line 6, new line 7,
it's just da, da, da, da, da,
every single time, right?
Maybe that's not what you want to do.
Maybe you want something
a little bit more robust, right?
Yeah, am I the only one
that says robust that way.
Okay, so we're gonna move on
to something called parallel.
Parallel is a fantastic tool.
If you don't have it you should get it.
It can make your life again really easy.
If you ever have input that's coming in.
If you're doing anything with logs
that you need to go somewhere else and
check something, but
you don't wanna do it all at once and
actually make like 9,000 connections
to a database or something.
You wanna do say 3 at a time,
5 at a time, 8 at a time, 10 at a time.
You can do this all with parallel and
turn a very pain in the ass program to
write into a simple program to write.
Not only that, say you have some sort of
tool you developed that takes a line of
input, does something that takes a long
time and then gives you out a result.
Well, it would really suck if
you had to do a thousand lines.
You're like, now I have to write this
program to be multi-threaded if you
wrote it in Node, or
if you wrote it in Go, it would just work.
But hey,
we can't always write things in Go, but
like pretend you had to write it in Node,
now you want to be able to spawn like 8
of those or 10 of those instances, but
you want them plucking as fast as possible
because some run short, some run long.
Parallel again, if you write your
script just to do one thing.
Parallel can paralyze it for you, so
you don't have to worry about that.
And even you can determine how
much you want it to parallelize.
All right, so let's go like this.
This is just like such a great one.
I'm just gonna call count.
All right, there we go.
There you go, 1 through 9.
Fantastic, I can go like this,
cat count, right?
There you go, 1 through 9.
I can take account, and
I can go into parallel, right?
And I can say, hey, I want three at
a time, and I want to go curl.com.
So now we just did three at a time,
and so we could do it.
We can do it one at a time,
okay, that's not that fast.
We can go two at a time.
We can preserve,
I believe k preserves input ordering.
So that means1 will always be in the one
spot, 2 will always be in the two spot,
3 will always be in the three spot.
So that way, even if some of
them start running really fast,
it will buffer up all the input for you
and make sure that it remains in the order
that you specify, which is, again, that's
a really hard problem for you to program.
If you had to program that yourself,
it's gonna take some effort, right?
That's a non trivial amount of effort,
because you want to pipe
it out as fast as you can.
But anything that runs ahead,
you don't wanna pipe it out.
So that way you could have parallel
program to another parallel program to
another parallel program, and you could
just keep on doing these things, and
it'll just go through as fast as possible.
So absolutely fantastic.
Just such a fantastic thing to have in
your tool bag, because anytime you write
a script, you never have to think about
the multi-threaded side of things,
if you're bound to a language
that only has one thread, right?
And so, it's just a lifesaver.
It's just such a lifesaver,
especially when you have a lot of stuff.
I had this right before I left my previous
company that I'm wearing right here,
I had to do a bunch of stuff with games,
and on it,
we were getting millions of rows of
data per like, every couple minutes.
And so I had to go through all these
things and try to figure out, say,
what is the frame rate doing?
How healthy is the machine doing?
All these kind of things.
And so it's just like,
that is such a hard problem when
there's also 50 games at the same time.
And so I wrote a simple script, and I
could use parallel to do certain levels of
querying out to the database, other
sources, make sure I'm not flooding that
and just doing like a million
requests at once, right?
I can control this entire system and
then write a series of
small simple programs that
just work on input outputs and
just daisy chain them all together as a
single command and just made life really,
really easy as opposed to just
being really huge pain in the ass.
Anyways, there you go.
I think that's great awk.
If you don't know awk, awk's kinda weird.
I'm not very good at awk, but
I only use it in one way.
You can get really expressive with awk.
I'm just not that great with awk.
But let's say, if you go a little ps aux,
and we're gonna grab vim, right?
I'm gonna get a couple processes
that are running Vim, right?
What happened if you had some output and
you wanted to sum up the second
item throughout all these things?
How would you do that?
Well, likely, a lot of people would
just reach for, again, a program.
Split by space, take the first entry,
convert them to numbers,
sum them all together, print them out.
Well, I mean,
you technically don't have to do that.
You can use something like awk,
which would be sum plus equals,
I think it's, I wanna say it's two,
two, and print some, right?
If I've done this all correctly,
it should just sum them all together.
And so you can do things where you
can pluck stuff out, add it together.
It's like a pretty squirrely language,
considering that awk is a genuinely
old kind of program, and it just
create variables and things just work.
And you can assign variables.
There's dictionaries.
You can do quite a bit of ad hoc scripting
in a really simple way in this program.
So it's just good, just to have a little
bit of knowledge that it exists, and
then maybe some ChatGPT if you
don't use it there very often.
One of the hard parts about any of these
things is that often you will not use them
at all for months on end, and then all of
a sudden you have to use JQ every day for
like a week straight, and then you
won't touch it again for six months.
And so
you don't have to memorize everything.
It's just good to know that it exists,
that you can do these operations,
cuz it's easy to go recall that knowledge,
especially now in the day and age of LLMs.
It just makes it super, super simple
to find effectively what you want.
You describe it in your
dumb caveman style,
it produces out an answer that's
relatively close to it or
completely hallucinated, and
you can eventually get your way there.
And so it's just so easy, just long as
you just know that this thing exist,
your life will be dramatically
better when you need to do them.
And then just get in
the habit of doing them,
because then you start
getting a little bit faster.
You get faster and faster, and
eventually you kind of know the basics.
And once you know the basics,
you can get through quite a bit
before you need to go look up.
So, I just wanted to give you that
little bit of like encouragement of
how awesome that stuff is.
>> Speaker 2: Something
like JQ in those tools.
Do you use use those explicitly
only in scripts and bash stuff or
do you ever use them in an equivalent
of that syntax and server side code?
Because that syntax for the JQ seems
pretty powerful to kinda use all the time
for JSON transformation and stuff.
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah, I mean,
it is really convenient.
I don't know if JQ is a library.
I don't know the performance
characteristics of it.
I've only ever used it as
just ad hoc query foo.
And so it's always me bringing
down a bunch of stuff,
need to do a bunch of stuff,
and then that's that.
And so I'd be a bit hesitant
to do anything beyond that and
incorporate it into something else,
because I really just don't
know its exact run time or
the consequences of that run time.
Because you could be just massively
incurring something that's much,
much slower.
And if you're spawning, and if you just
have to use it as like a process that
you're spawning, spawning additional
processes every single time,
requests are coming in would
also be massively bad.
I would probably suggest not doing that.
And so my guess is it's no,
but you never know.
You just never know.
And anytime you use in a language,
typically things tend to be slower, right?
Cause now you have two problems.
Now you have your DSL
that you're debugging and
often debugging a DSL is really awful.
Even the worst of enemies I wouldn't
recommend debugging some DSL,
it's just unfun, and so, I mean, you've
even experienced this with JSON when
you have an error in your JSON and
it's just like error.
You're just like, crap,
where's the comma, right?
Now you're gonna play the game of look
through your package out JSON, just try to
figure out where the comma is, because
it's just unfun to look at DSL errors.
They just are never good.
They're always very frustrating.